# STimulant

Some people may feel a lack of stimulus to their physical well-being. There is a possibility that these kinds of certain people may engage to destructive interests which can damage their health. One of those activities can be the involvement in the intake of various harmful chemical substances to their body. Some causes could be curiosity, family history, loneliness, peer pressure, the resulting euphoric sensation, pastime, and for medication purposes [12]. These substances can be referred to as “drugs”. 
Drugs are classified according to their effects to the human body. The most common classifications are narcotics, depressants, stimulants, hallucinogens, and anabolic steroids. 

In this project, the abovementioned students chose to do an analysis regarding the stimulant drugs through computer simulation. Stimulants, as they are also called, increase the activity of the central nervous system. They can make the person feel attentive, energetic, and concentrated [1]. But this type of drugs can also result to being tensed, paranoid, or angry. According to World Drug Report, stimulants like ecstasy and methamphetamine are the most frequently abused drugs followed by the cannabis or marijuana.
Drug intoxication covers four main phases: absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion. The chemical substances can enter the body via different ways, either through oral consumption, injection, or inhalation [8]. After such, the substances will be distributed to the body through the circulatory system. It will enter the bloodstream and the heart will pump the blood all through the body, then to the brain. It will trigger the neurons in the brain and send messages through the synapses. As soon as the drug has been distributed all over the body, it will be metabolized or broken down to new form of substances. This process involves the organs such as liver and kidneys. Such organs transform drugs into something that can be expelled by the body. The metabolized drugs move from the liver to the urinary bladder or to the large intestine leading to the final phase of the drug intoxication process is its excretion from the human body. It can be through solid or liquid substance, feces or urine respectively.

With the simulation of drug intoxication in the human body, a graphical representation of the process can be demonstrated. The procedures involved can be communicated and presented with clarity through simulation. By being able to scrutinize with a simulation model, a clear understanding and reliance can be fostered. The simulation of the stimulant drug intoxication can be of great help especially to those who are in the field of medicine and to the entities researching about such subject. 
